♪ Opening Song ♪
[rain pouring]
[KORO]
It's letting up.
[KORO gasps]
[KORO]
This one's close!
Don't fade!
Don't fade away!
Please, don't disappear!
[GINKO]
Mind if I join you?
[MAN A]
Be my guest.
[GINKO]
Some weather, huh?
[MAN A]
You're telling me.
[GINKO] I could barely see
what was in front of me.
I wonder when
it's going to let up.
It will be like this
for another hour.
[GINKO]
You a merchant?
If you have any food,
I'd love to buy some.
The long rain ruined
every last bit I packed.
[KORO]
Sorry. It's empty.
And I'm not a merchant.
[GINKO] What are you
planning to put in there?
That thing's huge!
[MAN A chuckles]
He's going to put
a corpse in it. Right?
No. You're not even close.
It's for a rainbow.
I'm out here on a quest
to find a rainbow,
put it in this jar,
and take it home.
[MAN A laughs]
Yeah, sure! Right!
But now you've got me curious.
Just why would you
do something like that?
Come on! Tell me!
It'll pass the time!
You want to know?
All right.
It all started when I was a boy.
[KORO'S MOTHER]
Honey?
Kenro! Stop him!
Please, Dad! Don't go!
Not again!
The rain is coming!
The rainbow...
[KENRO grunts]
[KORO'S MOTHER]
Honey! Please, come back!
[KORO] As far back
as I can remember,
whenever my father would
sense even the slightest hint
of a coming rain,
he would become a
completely different person.
He'd happily run around
mountains, fields, and valleys,
and not come back for days.
He was a very strange man.
[KORO]
After several days passed,
we'd find him stuck in the mud,
or asleep in a field.
Sometimes he would
manage to wander back
to our doorstep on his own.
[KORO] On the days
when it didn't rain,
he would drink enough
water to fill a bath.
[KORO'S MOTHER] You have no idea
how embarrassing this is for me!
Sometimes I wish
you'd never come back!
I'm sorry.
I have no idea what's
happening to me.
I can't control myself.
It all started when
I saw that rainbow.
[KORO'S MOTHER]
There's no such rainbow!
You've just gone mad,
that's all!
[YOUNG KORO]
Hey, Dad.
Is it fun for you to run around
in the rain like that?
Uh, of course!
It's more fun than you
could possibly imagine!
Well then I wanna do it too!
[KORO'S FATHER]
No, you mustn't!
You mother will
yell at you if you do.
Then tell me the story
of the rainbow again.
Well, I...
As long as you promise
not to tell your mother.
[KORO'S FATHER] It was on
the day before you were born.
The day the high waters from
the flood finally receded.
[BRIDGE BUILDER]
Damn...
After all the work
we put into building it.
[KORO'S FATHER] There's
nothing we could have done.
We just need to find ways
to improve the design.
[BRIDGE BUILDER] And build a
bridge stronger than that one?
I'm not sure if that's possible.
[KORO'S FATHER]
A rainbow. It's so vivid.
When I took a closer look,
I noticed that the rainbow was
coming out of the riverbank,
not too far away.
They say that there's treasure
at the end of a rainbow.
--[electric buzz]
--[KORO'S FATHER gasps]
[KORO'S FATHER]
It... It's gone.
[KORO]
From that moment on...
Every single time it rained,
that rainbow would appear.
It would be in different places
and in different forms.
It entertained my father,
but no one else could see it.
The only one who showed any
reaction to it at all was me,
who was only an infant.
[KORO] But then one day, the
rainbow seemed so far away.
Since then, it never returned.
And now,
no matter how much I drink,
I'm always thirsty.
When I feel the rains coming,
my body gets so excited
I can't control it.
Before I know it,
I'm outside running.
And in these brief
moments of sanity...
I find myself...
...longing for that rainbow.
I miss it so.
[KORO'S FATHER]
Where did it go?
I wonder...
Someday, I'm going
to go out and find it.
[KORO] Eventually, my father
became sick and bedridden.
Even then, he'd struggle to go
outside before every rainfall.
In the end, he became
too weak to even stand.
Hey, Dad. Water.
I just want to see that rainbow.
So here I am.
On a quest to find that rainbow,
find a way to bring it home,
and show it to my father.
[MAN A chuckles]
So you plan on catching
it with your bare hands?
I'll have to find it before
I can figure that part out.
[MAN A]
Oh, right, right.
Ah! It's finally letting up.
I guess I'll be on my way.
If I were you,
I'd work on the
ending of that story.
It's a little weak.
Take care!
Guess I should be going, too.
[GINKO]
Hey... Wait.
If you're looking
for that rainbow...
I suggest you head that way.
That wasn't just some kind
of fairy tale, was it?
There's a name for
what your father saw.
It's called a Koda.
[GINKO] I've only seen a mushi
like that once before.
But I never got to see where its
base rooted with the ground.
So I'd like to help you find it,
if that's all right with you.
As compensation,
you can buy my food.
Oh, and get rid of that big jar.
It was an interesting idea, but
it won't be of any use to us.
[GINKO]
Come on. Let's get going.
All right.
First of all, the only way you
can see a normal rainbow
when your back
is facing the sun.
A Koda will appear with
no regard to the sun's position.
Second, the order of
the colors is reversed.
If you don't get used to
seeing these differences,
you'll be chasing
rainbows forever.
Ginko...
That is your name, isn't it?
You must've had
a particular reason
to be out traveling
in the first place.
So why would you...
Why would you
stop to help a stranger?
Like I said before,
I want to see it, as well.
Besides, I didn't really
have any special destination
I was heading to.
Even so, I can't search
for the Koda forever.
I'll keep looking
until next autumn.
If we don't find it
by then, I'll quit.
Sound good?
[GINKO] It seems to
behave like a rainbow,
in that it often
appears after it rains.
We'll move by
reading the weather.
I've had a lot of
experience doing just that.
There won't be any rain around
here for quite some time.
[KORO]
Look.
That mountain
has a cloud over it.
It should be raining there
by sometime tomorrow.
[GINKO]
Huh?
I'm serious.
It's not like I've been walking
around aimlessly, you know.
Over there!
[GINKO]
Nope.
That's just a regular rainbow.
And that's not it, either.
[GINKO]
I should have known.
If you go out looking
for something like this,
you never find it.
How long has it been since
you started this journey?
It's been five years.
Wow...
Five years, huh?
So then...
That story about your father
being sick is a lie, isn't it?
No one would travel
around for five years
with sick family at home.
Wanting to show it
to my father isn't a lie.
But that's not the reason
I started this quest.
Did I ever tell you my name?
[GINKO]
No.
It's Koro.
It means Rainbow Man.
It carries my father's will to
forever search for the rainbow.
Because of that name,
I was the laughing stock
of my village.
In a western province,
there's a famous river
that often overflows.
My family has put a bridge over
that river for generations.
No matter how
many times it was built,
the bridge would wash away
with every flood.
Everyone hoped that my father
would solve this problem.
My brother had a talent
for designing the bridge.
Every time it was destroyed,
he'd think of a
better way to build it.
I, on the other hand,
didn't have an ounce
of his talent.
After tearing a tendon,
I lost most of the mobility
in my left hand.
As a builder, I was
worse than second rate.
Before I knew it,
the only place for me
in the whole village
was at my father's side.
I couldn't stand
living like that.
I decided to run away.
Would you mind
explaining something to me?
Why are you still
searching for the rainbow?
Each time I see one,
I can't keep myself
from chasing after it.
[KORO]
Don't fade!
Don't fade away!
[KORO] Maybe I wanted to confirm
what my father had told me.
Maybe I wanted to show all
the people that laughed at us
that this was the reason.
Even after I ran away
from the village,
I was still just
nothing but a joke.
I had nothing. No purpose.
No one should live just
for the sake of living.
A purpose, huh?
When we met, you said you
had no special destination.
Well... I suppose
you have your reasons.
But roaming around
is not an easy life.
You can't just go on traveling
about without a purpose.
Sometimes I just want
to take a break, you know.
So when I get like that,
I set a goal like this one.
And that, in turn,
creates a little leisure time.
The people who live just
for the sake of living
have no leisure time.
[KORO] I'm taking
this search seriously,
and for you it's
just "leisure time"?
[GINKO]
I'm taking this seriously, too.
[KORO]
It's an issue of attitude.
What's that mean?
To live, it's important to get
some rest and relaxation.
Besides, it's a better reason
than yours for doing this.
You're only searching
for the rainbow
to ease the guilt
you've been carrying around.
Such a waste.
You should've just
let all that go,
settled down somewhere,
and forgotten about the past.
You're probably right.
But I just couldn't.
That's why I'm here.
Who knows?
Maybe it's time to
put an end to all this.
I think I'll
stick with your plan
and give up
the search by fall.
[GINKO]
Hey! Koro!
Wait up!
[GINKO]
Ah! You have a good eye, sir!
Those are mermaid's nails.
When crushed and consumed
as tea, it makes a love potion.
I'll give you a good deal.
[MAN B] That's not exactly
what I was looking for.
Got something that
can make it rain?
Sorry, there's no such thing.
[MAN B]
If this drought continues,
the fields and crops
will dry up.
If I had something like that,
I would have used it by now.
[GINKO]
Hey!
Keep a close eye on the sky.
It's got to rain sometime,
doesn't it?
[KORO] My throat's dry.
I can't even sweat anymore.
[KORO'S FATHER]
The rain is coming.
[KORO gasps]
[KORO'S FATHER]
The rain is coming!
It's coming! It's coming!
[KORO'S FATHER]
A rainbow will appear!
[KORO]
Ginko!
Look! There!
It's a rainbow.
And the sun.
Hey! The love potion!
Sorry. The shop's closed now.
[GINKO]
Hey! Don't run like that!
You'll never last!
[BOTH panting]
Damnit!
Where did it go?!
We're close.
It's gotta be here somewhere.
It looks like this area
will still get some rain.
I don't think
it could have gone too far.
Let's wait here for the day.
[KORO] I knew where the rain
would be without seeing it.
[KORO] Was it like this
for my father, too?
[KORO'S FATHER]
Koro...
Now that you've grown up,
I'm sure that...
I'm sure that you've
slowly grown to detest
the name that I gave you.
I'm sorry, son.
I just wanted to name you after
something precious to me.
The most beautiful thing
I ever saw.
Please, forgive me.
Even your friends tease you
because of your name,
don't they?
[KORO'S FATHER]
Here.
I came up with new one.
A name.
A much better name.
Use it starting tomorrow.
No, Father.
I don't want it.
Don't say such things.
I'll never give up.
I'll keep trying until I'm the
best bridge builder there is.
Even better than you.
You'll see.
Hey. Koro.
Wake up. It's raining.
[KORO gasps]
There!
[GINKO]
Come on! Hurry!
Incredible...
[KORO'S FATHER] I just wanted
to name you after something
precious to me.
The most beautiful thing
I ever saw.
Beautiful...
Koro!
[KORO] What my father
told me was true.
This is something
I simply must take home.
[electric buzz]
That was stupid.
Are you all right?
Huh? Yeah.
[GINKO] I wasn't sure
until I saw it up close.
But I felt a shock
when I touched it.
This is one of the Nagaremono.
[KORO]
Nagaremono?
[GINKO] It's a being
that possesses life,
but looks like a form
of natural phenomena.
Other than the fact
that it's alive,
it's identical to the rainbows
made by the rain and sun.
This one was most likely
created by the light and rain,
infused with Koki.
[KORO]
Koki?
[GINKO]
The basis of mushi life.
[GINKO] Nagaremono are similar
to floods and typhoons.
They happen for a reason,
but they have no purpose.
They exist only
to travel and flow.
They have an effect on others,
but nothing can affect them.
If you touch this type of
mushi, it will attach to you.
[KORO] For a moment,
I felt like I was inside of it.
I wonder if my father
was drawn in
by that same rise and flow.
It didn't feel like
my opponent, but it...
It feels like
part of me is gone.
But it's good.
Refreshing, even.
So what are you
going to do now?
Who knows?
I'll have to think about it.
And you?
[KORO chuckles]
I think I know.
You're just going to
flow again, aren't you?
Just like that rainbow.
[GINKO] After that, I'm not sure
what happened to that man.
But I did hear that in
a province to the west,
an indestructible bridge
had been built
across a raging river.
Whenever it would
start to overflow,
he'd remove the binding pieces,
allowing the water
to flow between.
When the waters receded,
he'd put them back.
The "Nagare-bashi,"
as the bridge was called,
was built from
the ideas of one man.
[NARRATOR]
Next: "Where Sea Meets Man."